Title: Speed Up Your Website
----
Date: 2012-12-26
----
Related:
- writings/geometry-in-ui-design
----
Intro: To speed up your website, you first have to find out what's slowing it down.
----
Text:

Today, I’ll try to explain how to speed up your website with a little help from Pingdom Tools. I like to use it because of its’ Waterfall view, which clearly shows how long it takes to load each element on your website.

This tutorial will show you how to:

- detect page load speed problems,
- solve these page load speed problems,
- consequently decrease the page load time to speed up your website.

##1. Detecting Page Load Speed Problems

This is the most crucial step. If your website takes long time to load you have to improve on your load speed and detecting and identifying the page load speed problems is the first step.

You should start with a [Full Page Test](http://tools.pingdom.com/fpt/) on Pingdom Tools. Just enter the URL of your website and click on “Test Now” button.

(image: 01-pingdom-tools-test.jpg)

When the testing is completed you get results similar to this. It’s only the summary of the test and it will show you how much time it would take your website to load.

(image: 02-pingdom-tools-test-results.jpg)

Scroll down to see the details. This is the Waterfall view and it clearly shows what is loaded when a visitor comes to your website, in what order and how much time it takes to load. The sum is the page load speed. You can see the details of each file/path by clicking the arrow button on the right.

(image: 03-pingdom-tools-waterfall-view.jpg)

The Waterfall view is the best to identify the files that slow down your page load time. So if you want to speed up your website, you should try and remove or optimize for faster loading the problematic cases. I can’t really tell which they are, you have to find them yourself.

But I can tell you what happened in my case and how I sped up my website. Read on.

##2. Solving the Page Load Speed Problems

This is the tricky part of the website speeding up. When you find out what causes your website to load slowly, it’s time to act, based on the findings from the first step.

In my case these were:

__Timthumb Lag__

I noticed that every Timthumb cropped image file on my website took very long time to load. We’re talking about almost a second for each of them. That’s why I decided to ditch the Timthumb script and resize images with the built-in WordPress features. The results improved dramatically.

__Big PNGs Load Slowly__

The second problem I detected were the big png images i had in the slider. They were more than 100 Kb each and three of them. That’s almost 0.5 Mb and they took a while to load even on very fast broadband connections.

I know that many internet users now have unlimited fast connection to the internet but we still have to think about those who don’t or access our website from a mobile device.

__Combine the CSS and JS Files__

WordPress is great and the plugins make it irreplaceable. But the main disadvantage of using many plugins is that each has it’s own CSS file and more and more often even it’s own JS file. The more of these there are, the longer it takes to load the page.

(image: 04-pingdom-tools-css-js.jpg)

So to speed up your website you should try to combine these in one file for the CSS and one for the JS, if possible. These is not something you can do  in a short time but it can drastically affect the page load speed.

__One Page Love Award Took a While to Load__

I received this award for my one-page website and put it on the top right part of my website. I noticed, that for some reason it took a while to load, even though it’s not a big file. Later I saw, that it’s being loaded from another server, not my own. So I simply uploaded the image to my server and changed the url in my CSS file.

It took almost one second to load a 1.7 Kb image file. Way too long.

(image: 05-one-page-prej.jpg)

The 1.7 Kb image loads so much faster now and it doesn’t slow down the whole website.

(image: 06-one-page-potem.jpg)

##How Fast Can It Get?

Well, that’s a question I can’t give you a definite answer for. The more time you invest in detecting & identifying the page load speed problems and solving them, the faster your website will get. You should definitely try to get the page load speed below the 2 seconds.

Check out the image below. My website took 4.24 seconds to load on Nov. 28 2012, and it now takes only 1.15 seconds. That’s about 280% or almost three times faster. Quite an improvement, right?

(image: 07-pingdom-tools-history.jpg)

Let me know if this article was helpful to you and if you have any issues with detecting the page load speed problems and solving them. We can figure it out together.
