Title: Introducing HTML5 Book Review
----
Date: 2014-05-30
----
Related:
- writings/speed-up-your-website
----
Intro: After years of drawing websites, I decided to dive back into coding a bit more.
----
Opacity: 0.4
----
Text:

The HTML5 was very popular when I decided to do so. I was trying to find a book that would tell me what's new in HTML5 and what's different from other HTML languages. The ones I used before I started drawing websites. I have always enjoyed coding. [I believe every web designer should know the basics of HTML and CSS](http://designmodo.com/designing-browser/).

##Introducing HTML5

Written by [Bruce Lawson](http://twitter.com/brucel) and [Remy Sharp](http://twitter.com/rem). I decided to buy this book because it looked like it covered all the basics of HTML5, new features and what's different from older versions. Soon, I found out that HTML5 is much more flexible than the older versions. It's much more simple, too.

The doctype is very short and easy to remember. HTML5 doesn't care how you write the code. You can write it all in lowercase or uppercase letters, with or without the quotation marks.

##Structuring a Page with HTML5

With all the flexibility and simplicity of the HTML5, it's very easy to structure a basic HTML page. There is a whole chapter in this book that focuses on building a basic blog page with HTML5.

slika

New elements like header, section, nav, article, aside, footer and others clearly define different parts of a web page. They're called semantic elements, because they tell both the browser and the developer what each part of the website is.

forms

##Conclusion

It turns out that HTML5 isn't so simple and basic as I thought. In fact it's very sophisticated and offers a lot more options to web developers. And I think that this book is more appropriate for them. It gives a nice introduction to the whole HTML5, not just the basics. I found almost half of the chapters in this book too advanced for me.

I found out later that there's a book more appropriate for the likes of me. It's HTML5 For Web Designers. It focuses more on web design only, not also web development. In the end, this was still a good book for introducing someone to HTML5. Not for the people who are just learning HTML, but for the ones that are already deep in it.

not so basic